fix: Rehaul docker installation guide (#1031)
appsmithorg/appsmith-docs: website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/docker/README.mdx

---
description: Deploy Appsmith locally or on a private instance with ease using Docker Compose. Follow these simple steps to set up Appsmith on your Docker Compose platform.
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Docker

> This page provides stepwise instructions to help you install Appsmith using Docker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page provides instructions for the quickest way to install Appsmith locally using Docker.
```

Author: I don't think we should add the quickest way. I'll reword this.

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="Tde7GqE6FQQ" title="How to install Appsmith using Docker" 
caption="How to install Appsmith using Docker Compose"/> 

## Prerequisites

1. [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) (version 20.10.7 or later)
2. [Docker-Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) (version 1.29.2 or later)

> 3. Create `appsmith` folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 3. Create a folder named `appsmith` for deployment and data storage, then navigate to it using `cd` command.

Reviewer: Put point no 3 as the first point under Install Appsmith section. It makes more sense there

Author: I changed this a bit.

> ## Install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Install Appsmith
```

> Go to the `appsmith` folder and follow the steps below to install Appsmith:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   
 Create an installation folder called `appsmith` on your machine for deployment and data storage. Navigate to this directory using the `cd` command and follow the steps below to install Appsmith:
```

1. [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) (version 20.10.7 or later)
2. [Docker-Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) (version 1.29.2 or later)
3. Create `appsmith` folder

1. Create an installation folder called `appsmith` for deployment and data storage.
2. `cd` into the installation folder.
## Install
Go to the `appsmith` folder and follow the steps below to install Appsmith:

## Setup with Docker Compose _(recommended)_
<Tabs queryString="current-edition">
<TabItem label="Community Edition" value="community_edition">

The Appsmith Docker image contains all the components required to run within a single Docker container. All these multiple processes are managed by a [Supervisord](http://supervisord.org/) instance, which is a lightweight process manager.

<Tabs groupId="editions" >
   <TabItem label="Community Edition" value="community">

> 1. Click to download the [`docker-compose.yml`](https://bit.ly/docker-compose-CE) file and place it into the Appsmith installation folder.

Author: @sum35h - Earlier there were two ways in which users could download the `docker-compose.yml`. 
1 - click the link which points to the bit.ly link
2 - Use curl command, which also points to the same bit.ly

As we are asking users to go to the root directory using the `cd` command, users are already on the terminal and would it make more sense to just have the cURL command to download the file?

Please confirm. CC: @sharat87

Author: In the new version - I've just kept the cURL command. Please let me know if this makes sense.

Reviewer: If this is approved we can go ahead and merge this page

Reviewer 2: Yes, just mentioning the curl command works.

:::info
To upgrade your Community Edition to Business Edition, see [Upgrade to Business Edition using Docker](/getting-started/setup/upgrade-to-business-edition/docker).
:::

1. Sign up on [customer.appsmith.com](https://customer.appsmith.com) and generate a trial license key.

2. There are two ways in which you can download the `docker-compose.yml` file:
   * Download the [`docker-compose.yml`](https://bit.ly/docker-compose-be) file, and place it into the Appsmith installation folder. 
   
   * Run the following cURL command:

   ```bash
   curl -L https://bit.ly/docker-compose-be -o $PWD/docker-compose.yml
   ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

2. To start the Docker container, use the following command. You may have to run the command with `sudo` if you don't have permission to execute `docker-compose`. The below command downloads the Docker image if not present locally.

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

The server deploys Appsmith at startup, and you can access it at [http://localhost](http://localhost). You can also check the message "Appsmith is Running!" displayed in docker logs by using `docker logs -f appsmith` command.

> ![Appsmith is running message](/img/InstallationGuides__Docker__AppsmithRunningMessage.png)

Reviewer: i think we should avoid this screenshot

Author: Yes, I had removed it. But then put it back after our sync review call in the morning.

> :::info important

Reviewer: I feel all the steps should be on the respective tabs so that flow isn't broken.

Author: As discussed- I've duplicated them. However, we can discuss and confirm whether we should redirect the users to the customer portal for signing up and installing the business edition. In which case, the docs will only have instructions for installing community edition.

Author: As discussed, we now have the tab urls.

If you are on a Business Edition, after logging into your Appsmith account, enter your license key to activate the instance.
:::

## Troubleshooting

> If you see any errors during deployment, refer to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some common problems that you may encounter during installation:
```

* [Ports unavailable](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#ports-unavailable)
* [Containers failed to restart](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#containers-failed-to-start)
* [Unable to access Appsmith](/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors#unable-to-access-appsmith) 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you encounter any other errors, refer to the guide on [debugging deployment errors](https://docs.appsmith.com/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors) or reach out to the Appsmith team using the embedded chat widget on the bottom right of this page.
```
